Installation instructions for quosnmp v1.8.0

    There is an install script in the /bin directory of the quosnmp 
distribution.  I would recommend using it to install the various files to 
their correct locations.

    For a manual installation, copy at least these files:

bin/quosnmp to /usr/lib/cups/backend (the CUPS backend directory)
bin/quosnmp-util to /usr/local/sbin (or another program directory)
lib/Quosnmp.pm to /usr/lib/perl/site_perl (or any directory in the perl path)
etc/quosnmp.conf to /etc/quosnmp (create this if needed)

    Following that, you must still perform these steps to get quosnmp 
working with your printers:

Step 1: Modify the variables near the top of the quosnmp file to suit your 
        needs.  Alternately, edit the path to the configuration file (which 
        is also specified at the top of the quosnmp file) and then edit the 
        configuration file to suit your needs.  Note that the defaults will 
        be fine for more simple setups.

Step 2: Create the quota and accounting directories with appropriate 
        permissions.  At the least, user "lp" should have rwx permissions to 
        both directories.  Note that quosnmp will try to do this for you the 
        first time it needs those directories, but it can fail due to 
        permissions errors (e.g. if the next higher-level directory is 
        not writable by the CUPS user, usually "lp").

Step 3: In your printers.conf file, add "quosnmp://" to the beginning of any 
        URI for a printer which you want to have accounted.  Thus for example

    socket://192.168.1.1:9100

would become

    quosnmp://socket://192.168.1.1:9100

Step 4: Restart CUPS.

Step 5: Set the desired quotas, in particular the default quota.  Quosnmp-util 
        is one convenient way to do this.

    These steps are all you need to do to get print accounting working.  To 
support print quota enforcement you have to set at least the default quota.  
Otherwise the default (no quota file found) is treated as a quota of zero pages 
and no users will be able to print at all.

    The default quota, in pages, will be whatever number is contained in a file 
called "print_quota" in the page accounting directory.  Per-user and per-group 
quotas are set similarly, with files with names like: <user>_print_quota or 
<group>_print_quota.  Quotas must be positive numbers except for the special 
value "U", which means "unlimited" printing and "N" which means "printing not 
allowed".

    Quotas are just a total page limit, not a per-month or per-anything limit.  
To enforce periodic quotas, use a separate script to reduce your users' page 
counts by the amount of their quota every period.  A sample script along these 
lines can be found in the /opt directory of the quosnmp distribution.

    More details about how quosnmp works can be found in the quosnmp script 
itself.  In particular there is a large block of comments near the top of the 
script which may be worth reading if you are an advanced user or are thinking 
about customizing quosnmp.

